Previously, we discussed
communicating information
that is important
to stakeholders.
It's essential that
communications are
specific and clear, so
stakeholders understand
what's happening
and what actions may
need to be taken.
In this video, we'll go
into more detail about
how to create precise and
clear communications.
Creating security
communications to share with
stakeholders is similar
to telling a great story.
Stories typically have a
beginning, middle, and end.
Somewhere in that story
there is some sort of
conflict and an
eventual resolution.
This concept is also true when
telling security stories
to stakeholders.
The security story details
what the security challenge is,
how it impacts the organization,
and possible solutions
to the issue.
The security story also includes
data related to the challenge,
its impact and
proposed solutions.
This data could be in the form
of reports that summarize
key findings or a list of
issues that may need
immediate attention.
Let's use the following
scenario as an example.
You've been monitoring
system logs and
notice possible
malicious code execution
in the logs that can lead to
the exposure of sensitive
user information.
Now, you need to communicate
what is happening
to a stakeholder,
in this case, your
immediate supervisor.
The first step is to
detail the issue:
potential malicious
code execution
found while monitoring the logs.
The next step is to refer to
the organization's incident
response playbook, and
mention the suggested
guidance from
the playbook regarding
malicious code
found in system logs.
This shows your supervisor
that you've been
paying attention to
the procedures already
established by the team.
The final piece of your story is
to provide a possible
solution to the issue.
In this scenario, you may not be
the final decision maker
regarding what action is taken,
but you've explained to
the stakeholder what
has happened and a possible
solution to the problem.
You can communicate the story
we just discussed
in various ways.
Send an email, share a document,
or even communicate through
the use of a visual
representation.
You can also use
incident management
or ticketing systems.
Many organizations have
incident management or
ticketing systems that follow
the steps outlined in
their security playbooks.
Some scenarios are better
expressed by using
visual elements.
Visuals are used to convey
key details in the
form of graphs,
charts, videos, or
other visual effects.
This allows stakeholders to view
a pictorial representation
of what is being explained.
Visual dashboards
can help you tell
a full security story
to stakeholders.
Later in this course,
you'll have an opportunity
to learn how to use
Google Sheets to create
a visual security story.
That's going to be fun!
A security professional
who knows how to tell
a compelling and concise
security story can help
stakeholders make
decisions about
the best ways to
respond to an incident.
Ideally, you want to be
someone that make
stakeholders' jobs
easier, and communicating
effectively
will certainly help you do that.
Coming up, we'll continue
our discussion about
communicating with stakeholders.